you're like Fuji thanks us like that I
instantly unsoaked like do not renew
father the lovely gentleman is joining
the show I'm calling from New Hampshire
a longtime listener first-time caller am
i right no but you're the first the
first one yes no one's ever made feel
really good about that all right Connor
what do you want to talk to us about
yeah I wanted to talk about casting and
if the talent pool right now is too wide
to even attempt to get into it oh this
is great I love this topic I think
there's no talented casters at all on
the broadcast so I feel like you'll be
good ones in a couple you could
definitely bump off it's dead yeah
exactly
it's very similar to two reporters you
know there's like there's just no one
good and like all the jobs
alright so Connor so your if you want to
contextualize your question but more
let's just so you want to talk about
casters and if there's enough room do
you have you want to be caster maybe you
can a little bit more at least as like a
hobby maybe career I don't know but hey
like if you look at the casters that go
to like world or something there you
have like what 30 people come in or na
team is like eight people already I'm
not I'm pulling numbers I'm out of the
air that's okay we don't use facts on
this show yeah just the numbers are
already so high for who's in the
industry like how much room is there the
talents already there so I personally
think that like there is room I mean
there's lots of people who are
relatively new and are getting to do
stuff I got to do World Finals this year
and this was my first full year of lead
casting right like I've cast a lot of
other stuff and I've cast for a long
time but captain flowers is another
example he was at Worlds this year last
year he was literally casting from his
bedroom for like you know events that
very very few people were watching for
yeah left EU is is literally there
they're searching for Cola caster right
now quick shot is posting on Twitter
saying they're looking for color casters
I've seen things about like the LPL
english broadcast was looking for
casters there's there's a lot of a lot
of regions and stuff that need casters
and there's like there is turnover and
there is opportunities I think to get in
as far as like is it easy no I think
it's I think it's hard as and I
think that most people that are casting
the top top-level stuff is like our
people who have been doing it for a
really long time right like I was
talking to quick shot about this first
time I start casting and she doesn't
intent right so I've been casting for
really long time quick shot said he
started casting in 2006 or something so
going on 12 years for him right like a
lot of people do it for a lot of time
and if it's something that you enjoy and
it's something that you're passionate
about it then you should do it for fun
and you should like try to work your way
up right there's like there's smaller
events you can do there's things that
you can like practice that and if you're
good I think that there's going to be
more opportunities but like if someone
is doing it just to become like I only
want to do this if I'm gonna cast for
LCS in like a year or something that I
think there's no chance and it's the
same way I feel about pro gaming like if
you're if you're loving what you're
doing and you're working really hard at
it then I think you can get to where you
want to go but if you will only be happy
that you spent time on it if you will
become a pro gamer if you become a pro
caster that I think it's I think it's
like kind of always time well what is
the because I'm assuming you get this
message a lot you probably get people
tweeting you DMing you maybe your dreams
are close I don't know but you get a lot
of people reaching out asking how to
become a caster yeah yeah because I get
that all the time with content creator
and YouTube whatever but so it will just
clip this part of the show out then
you'll have something to link to
everybody how do you recommend people go
about becoming a caster if they want to
cast on the LCS desk they know they
can't do it maybe like net 2018 season
how do they get there you start casting
I mean it's it's like it's honestly it
sounds stupid but you have to practice
it's something that the people who are
doing what you want to do now are people
that generally have thousands of hours
working towards it right like I think
very few people got where they got by
luck I think most people got there
through hard work whether it's
you know in doing interviews or casting
or whatever it is you're doing like most
people spend a lot of time doing it and
I think you can start casting your
friends replays you can start casting
like there's there's community
tournaments and things like that that
have you know a handful of yours that
you can cast those there's I mean
captain flowers like the clip that kind
of got him famous is you know doing
English broadcast of of like LMS and
things like this right so there's like
there's opportunities but I think you
have to go out there and you have to
start doing it and you have to be doing
it consistently because the people that
are already doing it are working at it
non-stop and if you want to take
someone's job you have to be better than
them and that means you have to spend
more time you have to work harder you
have to you know become better
Colonna do you have other questions why
do you think you like at this point in
time do you think along with hard work
you need a gimmick to your casting or
like to be overly hype to break in to
the scene as a new cast they're like I
know captain Flowers is like a
super-hype guy and he's like one of the
newer people like to gain an audience do
you think that hype is required I don't
think so I think that like if you're a
play-by-play guy I think you know being
being exciting being like having hype
moments is certainly approves it but I
think that's true of every single
play-by-play I think if you're trying to
be a color caster you know I know Cyrene
was making like youtube comment content
and doing like analytical stuff and like
I think that there's ways that you can
get in without having to be like
screaming over clips and things like
that you know it's just making content
that people want like showing that you
have foreknowledge for the game and like
and being consistent right and and if
you can show that you you know a lot
about the game if you can show that like
you are offering something and you're
like working on your technique and
you're doing all these things then I do
think that there will be opportunities I
think just to chime in coming from even
broader of an angle from like content
creator streamers this kind of thing you
should have a reason that people should
watch you like if you can't say what's
separates you or makes you special not
to everybody why but like at least why
some people should watch you if you
don't have a good answer for that you
need to find that answer somewhere
because like as abel say and there are
people out
there who are doing really cool stuff a
lot of people have things that separate
them like for me I was a coach I
actually worked and lived and breathed
the scene for two years behind before I
started being more on camera and I think
a lot of people have stuff to separate
them and make them stand out and it goes
well beyond eSports like doctor
disrespect stood out because he put on a
mullet and a mustache and started
screaming about how he's the best like
like you don't need a gimmick even
though that one kind of does fall into
that category but you need to stand out
for some reason shroud on the complete
other hand is just amazing
that's why people watch up to pull from
non league examples right yes yes Pub
Gees one guy is hilarious one guy is
just the best and they have things that
stand out and that's the same guy doctor
disrespect the best and most hilarious
person everything Club G today yeah yeah
you're right
there you go Connor anything else you'd
like to ask about casting no I think all
my bases are covered
yeah thanks so much for coming on the
show man thanks